feat: add message pump lifetime (#376)
arcus-azure/arcus.messaging: docs/preview/02-Features/06-general-messaging.md

﻿---
title: "General messaging"
layout: default
---

# General messaging functionality
The Arcus Messaging library has several messaging systems that can retrieve messages from Azure technology (like Azure Service Bus and Azure EventHubs), and run abstracted message handlers on the received messages.
Both and future systems also support some general functionality that will be explained here.

## Stop message pump when downstream is unable to keep up

⚡ If you use one of the message-type specific packages like `Arcus.Messaging.Pumps.EventHubs`, you will automatically get this functionality. If you implement your own message pump, please use the `services.AddMessagePump(...)` extension which makes sure that you also registers this functionality.

> When messages are being processed by a system that works slower than the rate that messages are being received by the message pump, there could occur a rate problem. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When messages are being processed by a system that works slower than the rate that messages are being received by the message pump, a rate problem could occur . 
```

> As a solution to this problem, the Arcus Messaging library registers an `IMessagePumpLifetime` instance in the application services that let you control the message receiving process and pauses if necessary for the dependency downward system to keep up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a solution to this problem, the Arcus Messaging library registers an `IMessagePumpLifetime` instance in the application services that lets you control the message receiving process and pauses if necessary for the downstream dependency system to keep up.
```
